The state of civil rights in America is better today than ever before. Is prejudice completely eradicated? No. Is prejudice mostly gone? Yes. In America today, pr4ejudice is by no means dead - however, it is on the last legs of its life. In modern America, the state of racism is a far cry from what it was like even 20 years ago. Racist groups as well as publicly racist demonstrations are virtually nonexistent. People are rarely, if ever, attacked for racial reasons. the only battle the civil rights movement has left to win is that of the prejudiced's minds. 

In the early 1920s, racism was live and active. Despite the abolition of slavery over six decades ago, people often treated blacks as if they were animals - the result of this vicious outlash was de facto segreagation among the people. Although there was no longer any legal basis for separation of residence based on color, people often tended to stay apart in order to minimize any possibility of conflicts. In some locations, the white population regularly interacted with the black community in a nonviolent manner, but at any sign of confrontation, the immediate blame was often shifted onto the black community. One of the most notable examples of shocking yet well-concealed racism was seen in the case of Rosewood, a town in Florida. A white woman was attacked by her (white) husband, and then in order to protect his reputation, claimed that she was raped by a black man. This resulted in an incredibly violent and bloody witch hunt thatr led to the devastation of nearly half the population of the local black town. Even after the truth was uncovered, the State of Florida did not make reparations for nearly another half decade, showing that the government barely even cared about the innocent people (nearly half of them women and children) who were ruthlessly murdered. However, nowadays racial indicents such as this happen rarely, if ever. In the past 50 years, the only racial violence on such a large scale has been during the civil rights movements of the 1960s. Since then, violence against minorities has sharply decreased. Although xenophobic sentiments are still alive in some places, they are slowly being quashed out. 

Nowadays, virtually all racism is held within the minds of private citizens. Fortunately, society has manage to virtually quahs all public racism nowadays. The most notable recent example of this lies in the case of Donald Sterling, the (former) owner of the Clippers. He had never publicly said anything racist, but after a private conversation of his was released, his racist thoughts and ideals were revealed to everyone, and it was discovered that he was secretly prejudiced (although not quite as racist as the media portrayed him to be). However, the problem of racism inside the minds of people stems from stereotypes and bad impressions. The best way to combat these subtle influences that lead to racism is education. Teaching people about different people and different cultures creates and understanding of humans which then leads to a more complete view of life an the various cultures that make up America in this day and age.

The civil rights movement intended to create a fair America for everyone, with no discrimination based on any criteria. It has not succeeded completely in its goal, and it most likely never will. But it is, can, and will get pretty damn close to achieving its ideal goal of a perfect America.