The American Dream is the quintessential  property that makes this country so desirable. It is the proverbial "promised land" of freedom and opportunity. The promise of America is that anyone can achieve whatever they want to, despite any sort of societal disadvantage. It is this amicable goal that so tantalizes the world's foreigners in order to lure them to this counry, wehre the truth is not always as it seems. 

The Great Gatsby is _the_ American novel, with its stylized depiction of New York in the "Roarin' Twenties". It provides a deep look into the American Dream that exposes some of the deep and dark negatives to the widely lauded "trap" of America. Nick, Gatsby, Daisy, and Tom are all seeking the American Dream, but each is doing it in his or her own way. Tom is chasing the dream of materialistic pursuit, going to incredible extremes to secure the most luxurious possible item in every realm of imagination, all in the name of Daisy, who wants both the materialistic and sentimental facets of the American Dream - a man she loves who will treat her like a princess. Gatsby solely desires mutual love from someone who he has incredibly deep feelings for (Daisy, in this case) and only dons his attitude of incredible wealthiness in order to try and make her happy. Nick is simply trying to make an honest living for himself, but gets caught up in the spectacle of his surroundings as he watches the madness of the people around him unfold. (Insert quote about Tom/Daisy destructive). The main problem with the American Dream as evidenced in the Great Gatsby is that it can draw people in and consume their lives. Tom and Daisy are drawn into pursuing extravagance until it is the only thing that they do and not even the death of Daisy's one-time lover deters them at all. 

The Joy-Luck Club excellently exposes the benefits of the American Dream from the perspective of first and second generation American perspectives. The elder people who were born in China came to America in order to provide a better prospect at life for themselves and their children. The older people could find better jobs in America, and they were no longer plagued by the consequences of the various political problems of China. (Insert quote about giving up children in war). America was also a far better place to raise the children, who were given the opportunity to grow up and do what they liked. However, a significant problem emerges from the mass-media portrayal of the American child's dream - insolence is regarded as positive, and this causes a massive amount of problems in the strict Chinese community. (Insert quote about Waverly's problems with her mother at a young asge and even now). The American Dream is both positive and negative in the fact on one hand, it provides a wealth of opportunities to people of all ages to do something better in life, but on the other hand, its influences destroy traditional culutre and foster undesired traits in children. 

The American Dream is the glue that holds togerther America, but in some places, it is not quite as sticky as it should be. Although the American Dream is the quintessential cherry on the top of the sundae that is America, it should be rememberd that one should awlays approach with catuion when something seems to good to be true.